In the last video we were able to steer the car in whichever direction the film was oriented.
Now we're going to start driving the car.
So the idea is that when I touch the screen of the phone the car should start driving.
So override touch has begin
and override touch is ended.
Make a variable var touched of type.
Bull is equal to false touches me again gets triggered whenever the user touches the screen of the phone.
So if the user touches the screen of the phone set touch the true self not touched is equal to true
when the user releases the scene view when the user is not touching the screen a touch to false and
now inside of it simulate physics at time.
Let me just try and find it.
Right var engine for us of type float is equal to zero.
Now if Tut is equal to true let me just call this self-taught touched.
If self-edit touched is equal to true if the user is touching the scene view set the engine force equal
to 50 Newnes else.
If the user is not touching the screen set the engine for us to zero Newtons.
We want to apply this engine for us to our car before I do that.
Make sure this is a double equal sign to indicate a boolean check.
And now we want to apply this engine force to our car so a vehicle or self vehicle apply engine for
us.
The engine for us for applying is simply the engine for his variable and we want to apply this engine
force to the back wheels.
If I go to my wheels the right which is right here the back wheels are located in Indigo's zero in one
of the wheels right.
The one in the zero is the rear wheel and the one at inducts one is at the rear left wheel.
So back into here.
Make sure you apply engine force to wheel Zura the rear right wheel and apply it to wheel one to the
rear left wheel and it's telling me that I cannot convert a value of type float to expected argument
type CEG float.
So instead of making this a float value make it a C.G. float and it's as simple as that.
Run the UP WAIT TILL THE WORLD orange and loads as soon as the world orange and loads start detecting
some surfaces.
Once you've detected enough surfaces and your car
as soon as I touch the screen the car drives.
However the car drives towards me let me just try this again.
Which makes sense since as soon as I add the car the car faces me and since the car is moving forward
it makes sense that the car drives towards me.
We need it such that when the car is in front of us it's facing the other direction inside of your scene.
When the car is in front of us so go to the front perspective click the play button twice.
At the moment the car is facing me.
I don't want it such that when the car is in front of me it's facing the other direction.
So click on your chest Snoad resize the navigator and we want to rotate it 180 degrees horizontally
across the y axis such diets facing the other direction.
If you look at the car now when it's in front of us it's going to be facing the other direction run
the up as soon as the world origin loads start detecting some surfaces once you've detected enough surfaces
rotate your phone horizontally such that the car moves straight as soon as we touch the screen.
I need your car and if I touch the screen the car moves away from us which makes sense.
The car is facing the other direction and it's moving straight.
However now if I orient my phone to the left and I touch the screen the car moves to the right.
If I orient my phone to the right the car moves to the left.
That's because we reversed the car's orientation by rotating at 180 degrees across the y axis.
Therefore the steering angle required to move the car a certain direction was reversed as well.
So all we have to do to fix that is simply reverse the steering angle.
I want you to pause the video and give it a try.
To reverse the orientation what's the car is steering just make the orientation a negative and now everything
should be in sync.
Rerun the EP.
Wait till the world origin loads once your origin load started detecting some surfaces once you've detected
a large enough surface in your car to that surface.
Make sure your phone is horizontal so that your car moves straight first.
Now if I move my Filon to the left the car moves to the left.
Now let me add another car.
If I move my phone to the right the car is going to move to the right.
Now the car is a bit too fast.
There are two ways to control it speed.
One way is to simply change it smacks so right when we're declaring our physics body we're going to
give the physics body of our car a mass so right body mass is equal to 5 Newtons.
The mass of the car before was only one.
Since that is the default mass of any physics body.
Now the car is 5 Newtons.
It's much heavier and therefore will move slower.
Run the UP WAIT TILL THE WORLD origin loads
as soon as the world origin loads start detecting some surfaces.
Once you've detected a nice horizontal surface make sure that you orient your phone in the horizontal
so that when your car first starts your vertical acceleration is zero.
When your vertical acceleration is zero your steering angle is zero.
And when you're steering angle 0 your car's wheels will start off going straight.
And now as I move the car this seems to be a pretty good speed.
This is already looking pretty good.
Now there is another way to fix the speed of the car.
So put this back to one nutans which is what the mass was before.
We just never declared it since the default mass of the car weighs one news and lower the engine for
us to about 5 Newtons.
When we're touching the screen you can lower the engine for us to whatever you want until you find the
optimal engine for us that suits your up 5.
I found 5 Neumann's to be a fair speed so rerun the up.
Wait till the world origin load make sure you orient the phone horizontally so that when you first had
your car your car moves forward.
Since the wheels are not going to have a steering angle once you and your car start moving the car orienting
the phone how you want it and this is a pretty good speed.
It's not too slow and it's not too fast.
In the next video we're going to look at reversing the car and giving it breaks.